== Recipe

Scaling this down to roughly 2 gal. Rounding all the numbers pretty
liberally here (for simplicity) so it'll be a bit different from the
previous batches.

Replacing Galena and Amarillo with Chinook; Fuggle with
Willamette. DME instead of LME. Again, simplicity.


Ingredients:
   4 oz American Crystal 20L
   2 oz American Crystal 60L
   2 oz Belgian Biscuit
   2 lbs light DME
   6 oz Honey
 1.5 oz Chinook hops
 0.5 oz Willamette hops
 0.5 oz Ginger
   1 pack Safale S-04

Steep the grains for 30 minutes in 1 gal at 66 C. Gradually
bring temperature up to 77 C.

Add the DME and honey. Bring to boil. Start timer.

Schedule:
  0  min: 0.5 oz Chinook
  30 min: 0.5 oz Chinook
  45 min: 0.5 oz Ginger (chopped)
  60 min: 0.5 oz Willamette (flameout)

Top off to 2 gal. Cool to room temperature. Add yeast. Ferment.

Dry hop with the remaining 0.5 oz Chinook.


== Brew day (2019-12-29)

No major changes to the recipe above. Added yeast nutrients (1.5 tsp)
at 50 minutes.

Our kettle is <2 gal, so I boiled and cooled about 3/4 gal of water
separately to dilute with later. Also used about a cup of this water
to rehydrate the yeast.

This is the first time I brew in an American kitchen. The differences
from Stockholm include having a much larger sink, a gas stove and a
freezer with built in ice machine. The gas stove produced a very nice
rolling boil. The sink and ice machine enabled me to cool the wort
pretty quickly without needing an immersion chiller.

Temperature control while steeping the malts was a bit tricky. I don't
have a good thermometer and had to rely on a cheap meat thermometer
instead. I think it Worked out ok anyway, but it would be nice having
something that's easier to read.

Added some water to the boil around 55 minutes to adjust for what had
boiled off, but I didn't add enough! The ~3/4 gal I had set aside for
topping off wasn't sufficient to hit the full 2 gal. Ended up adding 6
cups of water straight from the tap. Not ideal, but it'll work out.

A fair bit of the lost volume was due to trub, which I had completely
forgotten to take into account. Also lost 1.5 cups of the undiluted
wort to a sample that I took before diluting (because stupid). That
had SG at 1.092

OG: 1.049
