I want to brew a light, drinkable, lager like beer. Something with a
perhaps broader appeal than some of the heavier, hoppier and spicier
beers I've made before. Something that'll work well this coming
summer.

Since I don't have space for a fermentation chamber, an actual lager
isn't really an option. But a Cream Ale could work. After reading some
articles about the style, I formulated a very simple recipe that I'd
like to experiment with a bit.

Experiment 1 is focused on malt (extract). I'll make two 1 gal
batches. One with Briess Pilsen DME, and the other with Briess Golden
Light DME. I'll also use cane sugar, since that appears to have been a
common practice for cream ales. Should help dry them out a bit.

For yeast, I'll be using OSLO Kveik from Bootleg Biology. First time
trying a kveik. This strain is said to produce very crisp, lager like
beers. Even at high temperatures. That'll be useful later in the year.

For Hops, I'll just use what I happen to have avaialble, and that's
Amarillo. Not typical for the style I guess, but whatever. Since the
target IBU is low, and the volume is as well, the quantities will be
tiny. I ordered a jewelry scale to make sure I have sufficient
precision.

Fermentables:
 - 0.8 lbs DME
 - 1.7 oz  Cane sugar

Hops:
 - 4 g     Amarillo hops (8.6% AA)

Hop schedule:
 60 min: 2 g Amarillo
 10 min: 2 g Amarillo

Yeast: OSLO

Prediction from Brewer's Friend:
OG: 1.051
FG: 1.009
ABV: 5.62%
IBU: 21.95
SRM: 2.51 / 4.04 (Pilsen 2L / Golden Light 4L)

== Brew day (2020-01-25)

First batch was the pilsen version. Second was the Golden Light. 60
minute boil in 1.5 gal tap water. Hop additions per schedule, as well
as 1/8th whirlfloc tablet and 1/2 tsp yeast nutrient at 10 minutes.

Chose to aim for a 1 gal post boil volume, but only transfer 10 cups
(=5/8=0.625 gallons) to the fermentors. That leaves plenty of head
space in case the kveik goes nuts.

Post boil volume on the first batch was a bit higher than intended. My
measuring stick and some math suggests it came in and 1.1 gal. Math
also says that that should result in SG 1.045 instead of the planned
1.051, but actual FG reading was 1.041. So yeah, this'll be a lighter
beer than I planned.

Second batch came in at 1 gal post boil, but OG is 1.044. ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

For both batches, after cooling to 21-22 C I just let the kettle sit
for 10-15 minutes so the trub could settle a bit. I then used a
sanitized measuring pitcher to scoop out the clear wort. End result is
very clear liquid in the fermentors. I think I'll try to start doing
something like this for larger batches as well, but with a siphon.

Batch 1 started boiling at 11:40 and was on fermentor at 1:20. For
batch 2 the boil started at 1:30. On fermentor at 3:00. At 3:15 I
split the yeast pack roughly 50-50 across both fermentors, aerated
them by shaking and moved them to a closet.

The worts look and taste fairly similar. Pilsner batch is definitely a
bit lighter in color, but not a whole lot. It also has a bit more
flavor or texture (or something), while the golden light wort has a
very clean flavor. More bitterness than I'd expected in both though.
