== Recipe ==

Ingredients:

 2 gal raw apple juice
 1/2 pack Safale S-04 dry yeast
 1 bag of black tea
 1 tsp pectic enzyme
 2 tsp yeast nutrient

Pour apple juice into sanitized fermenter.

If juice is unpasteurized: Crush and add campden tablets. Let it sit
for 24-36 hours.

Bring 1-2 cups of water to a boil. Remove from heat and steep the tea
for 5-10 minutes. Pour the tea into fermenter.

Add 1 tsp of pectic enzyme, 2 tsp yeast nutrient and pitch the
yeast. Let it ferment for 3-4 weeks.

== Cider making day! (2019-11-13)

Last time I made a cider was in late 2015. It was pretty awful. Not
sure what went wrong that time. Perhaps a whole lime's worth of juice
was too much? Perhaps the black tea mucked everything up? Perhaps
boiling the pectic enzyme was the issue? Or was it the brown sugar?
Perhaps just an infection.

Either way, this time I'll do a smaller, less fancy batch.

Got a new 3 gallon fermenter (suitable for 2-2.5 gal batches) called
the Brewdemon. It's a cheap, plastic, conical fermenter. Has a
convenient spigot which should make bottling (straight from primary)
quick and easy. Although that will make priming for carbonation a bit
tricky. Hmm. Will have to think more about that.

The juice was pasteurized, so this was just a matter of sanitizing,
adding the ingredients and sealing.

But, as always, something goes wrong. I forgot about the tea bag I had
left steeping in hot water. Fermenter lid was already sealed when I
realized that. Reopened and poured in the tea. Immediately realized
that that might've been a bad idea as the layer of dry yeast on top
completely disappeared.

Did I kill it the yeast? No idea. Did this mess up the pectic enzyme?
Probably not. After all, it was 1.5 cup in 2 gallons of cider. Decided
to add the second half of the yeast pack before resealing the
lid. Just in case.

Put the fermenter in a large plastic bag (in case it leaks) and moved
it into a closet. Now we wait.

Specific gravity reading was 1.046 before adding 1.5 cup of tea
water. Used an online calculator to compute the diluted gravity.

OG: 1.044

== Check in (2019-11-29)

Haven't seen any bubbles in the airlock during these two weeks, but
there's definitely been a very active fermentation going on. The lid
doesn't seem to form a tight enough seal, and I also had a bit too
much water in the lock. No worries though.

Opened it up today. Took a sample and measured gravity. I don't have a
good test jar, so I put the hydrometer straight into the fermenter. A
little bit hard to get a good reading that way, but I'm guesstimating
the absolute error is less than 0.001.

SG: 1.000

The sample smelled a lot like white wine. Very lightly carbonated. Dry
and tart, but not overly so. Couldn't pick up any particular off
flavour, and while it's not "good", it's definitely not "bad"
either. I think another week on primary and a month or two on bottle
could do a lot to improve the flavour.

A thick layer of lees has formed on the bottom of the fermenter. It
unfortunately covers the spigot, so I've bought a small auto-siphon
and a 2 gallon bottling bucket to be able to transfer it off without
bringing along too much gunk. Expecting to bottle it in a week or so.


== Bottling day (2019-12-07)

FG 1.000
ABV: 5.8%

A bit hard to read the hydrometer without a test jar. Should get one.

Used a (sanitized) soup ladle to take a 1 pint sample.

It doesn't smell like white wine anymore. Mostly odorless, with a hint
of cider in there. Taste is sour and watery. Not drinkable, but not
as awful as the 2015 batch either. I'm hopeful!

Did some experiments with stevia and apple concentrate. Put 1/4 tsp
stevia in 1 cup of water, and added 1 tsp of that solution to the
pint. Added rouhgly 1/8 tsp apple concentrate. It felt a little bit
"artificial", which I think is due to the concentrate. I bet that'll
mellow out over time, but still decided to hold back a bit on the
concentrate. Math is hard, but I think I scaled it all up correctly to
a guesstimated 1.8 gal volume.

Dissolved 1.5 oz (44 g) of table sugar in 1 cup of water for priming,
and to that (once cool) I added roughly 1/5 tsp stevia and 1.5 tsp
apple concentrate.

Getting a bottling bucket was a good idea. Everything went smoothly.

Ended up with thirteen 12 oz bottles and two large flip cap bottles
that I'd guess are 0.75-1 litre each. Should've measured their volume
beforehand... Anyway, that would put me at 9.75 pints in small bottles
and 3-4 pints in the big ones. Roughly 1.6 or 1.7 gallons in total.


== Sampling (2019-12-26?)

Not 100% sure about the exact date, but somewhere around christmas I
opened two bottles. First had no carbonation whatsoever. I suspect I
messed up when I capped it, or got a bad cap. The second was decently
carbonated, perhaps a bit on the low side.

Flavor was cidery, but very, very sour. It was almost drinkable, but
not quite, and definitely not enjoyable. A bit like a very sour beer,
but a cider, and not good.

Will sample again mid January.

== Sampling (2020-01-12)

Carbonation is too low. Just a very gentle hiss when opening. I think
this is also reflected in mouthfeel. Acidity is still there. Sour. Not
good. But, it's better than last time!

Next sample in mid to late February perhaps?
