
# Sort of SNPA

Brewing a pale ale. Decided to start with something inspired by Sierra
Nevada's Pale Ale. There are a bunch of recipes out there, including
[this one from
BYO](https://byo.com/recipe/sierra-nevada-pale-ale-clone-2/) and
[Sierra Nevada's own homebrew
recipe](https://sierranevada.com/blog/pale-ale-homebrew-recipe/). According
to the former, the latter has since been modified by Sierra Nevada to
use different hops.

I decided to KISS. First of all, dry malt extract and a 60 minute
boil. Second, nothing but Cascade, just like in the old SNPA
recipe. Malt should be ~92% 2 row and ~8% Crystal 60L.

However, when I ordered my 60L Crystal I forgot to check the "mill
grains separately" box, and ended up with a bag of several malts mixed
together. So I decided to roll with the Crystal 40L I already have at
home.

For yeast, something like US-05 would be appropriate. But I decided to
try some of the OSLO Kveik I harvested from my cream ale experiment
instead.

## Recipe

Volume: 2 gal

Grain:
- 2 lbs Briess Golden Light DME
- 4 oz Crystal 40L

Hops:
- 1.4 oz Cascade (6.3 AA)

Yeast: Bootleg Biology OSLO Kveik

Schedule:
- 60 min: 0.3 oz Cascade
- 30 min: 0.6 oz Cascade
- 10 min: 1/2 whirfloc tablet
- 0 min: 0.5 oz Cascade

Predictions (from brewer's friend):
- OG: 1.055
- FG: 1.011
- ABV: 5.9%
- IBU: 39.43
- SRM: 7.24

## Brewday (2020-02-10)

First brew in my new 5 gal kettle. Steeped the grains in 1.5 gal of
water around 65-75 C. Boil went fine.

After cooling I let the kettle sit for 45 minutes. Wanted to let the
trub settle so I could siphon off clear wort. Unfortunately, I only
got perhaps 1.2 gal _clear_ worth that way. Ended up with 1.5 gal in
total, but definitely took a good portion of trub along for the ride.

I wanted 2 gallon, so this is a bit of a bummer. Lots of hops in this
batch, and a much wider kettle than before, so it makes sense that
kettle loss is heavier now. I think I'll scale up to a 2.5 or even 3
gal kettle volume next time around.

- OG: 1.057 (Hydrometer)
- OG: 1.059 (Tilt)

Wrapped the fermenter in a blanket and put it in the synth room. A bit
warmer in there. Curious to see how fast the kveik ferments
out. Dropped in the tilt so stay tuned for a fermentation chart.

## "Crashing" and fining (2020-02-16)

Kveik is insane. After 3 days of fermentation, SG seemed to have
settled around 1.014. Bumped up the temperature in the synth room a
bit and gave it another 24 hours. Then over to a much cooler space to
"cold crash" overnight, although I'm reluctant to use that term since
it's unlikely to ever get below 10 C. About 18 hours later it's at 12
C.

2 grams of gelatine dissolved in 3 oz boiling water. Cooled and poured
into fermenter.

I think it'd make sense to give this beer another week before kegging
but I'm also very curious about this whole idea of going from boil to
keg in <1 week, so I'll just go ahead and rush this for science.  Will
give the gelatine 48 hours to do its thing, and then I'll keg.
