
## Recipe

This is put together by combining a couple of different clones
([1](http://beersmithrecipes.com/viewrecipe/1114500/clone-flying-dog-raging-bitch),
[2](https://www.homebrewtalk.com/forum/threads/raging-bitch-clone.281500/),
[3](https://www.brewersfriend.com/homebrew/recipe/view/12319/raging-bitch-clone))
of Flying Dog's Raging Bitch IPA.

A bitch is a female dog. A female, unspayed cat, is called a Queen. I
don't have a dog, but I do have a cat. Hence, this beer is called
Raging Queen.

Originally scaled this to a 2 gal recipe, but in practice my current
kettle is only good for a 1.5 gal boil and I'll have to dilute the
wort post-boil. Used Brewer's Friend to adjust the recipe with that in
mind.

Grain bill:
- 3.2 lbs Maris Otter LME
- 0.9 lbs Pilsen DME
- 5 oz Crystal 40 L
- 5 oz Carapils

Hops:
- 0.3 oz Warrior
- 1.4 oz Amarillo
- 0.7 oz Columbus

Schedule:
60 min 0.3 oz Warrior
30 min 0.2 oz Amarillo
30 min 0.2 oz Columbus
15 min 0.3 oz Amarillo
15 min 0.3 oz Columbus
 0 min 0.2 oz Amarillo (flameout)
 0 min 0.2 oz Columbus (flameout)

Yeast:
- Belgian Ardennes (Wyeast 3522)

Dry hop:
- 0.7 oz Amarillo

Stats:
- OG:  1.084
- FG:  1.022
- ABV: 8.14%
- IBU: 66.24
- SRM: 9.75

## Brew day (2020-01-18)

Brewing together with C today. Raging Bitch is one of her favorite
beers, and that's the main motivation for this brew. It's meant to be
reasonably similar in style to the original.

Steeped the specialty grains for 30 minutes in 1 gal around 70
C. Remembered to sparge the grain bag this time. Topped up to roughly
1.5 gal, added the malt extracts and brought to a boil. Followed the
hop scehdule, but also added 1 tsp yeast nutrient at 10 minutes, and
1/4 whirlfloc tablet at 5 minutes.

I poured the whole shebang into the fermenter. Trub and all. No
filtering of any kind. Then diluted up to 2 gal. I forgot to record
the volume before diluting, but I'd guess it was around 1.5 gal. I had
continuously topped up the brew kettle with boiling water to keep it
near that volume.

Couldn't find the Belgian Ardennes yeast at my LHBS. They recommended
trying Belgian Ale A (OYL-024) instead, which I did. This was a liquid
pack. I forgot to shake it before pitching, so there was a lot of gunk
left in the bottom of the pack. I added a bit of the boiled and cooled
water I used for dilution, gave it a shake and pitched the remaining
slurry.

I also dropped in my brand new Tilt Hydrometer. Super cool device.

OG: 1.074 (Hydrometer)
OG: 1.073 (Tilt)

That's quite a bit lower than the 1.084 I was aiming for. I did lose
some LME due to a brainfart (confused by 0.1 lbs not being equal to 1
oz), but hardly the 0.6 lbs I'd have to lose to drop down to 1.073
according to Brewer's Friend.

It's possible that the dilution resulted in more high gravity wort in
the bottom of the fermenter, throwing off both my sample and the tilt
which primarily measure the upper part. If that's the case, then the
tilt might report a higher SG when fermentation kicks off. We'll see.

It's also possible that I diluted to more than 2 gallons by
accident. Will check later.

Anyway, assuming the same FG, I should be looking at an ABV of about
7% instead of 8.4%. Not the end of the world.

## Dry hop (2020-01-29)

0.7 oz Amarillo pellets straight into fermenter. Wonderful smell of
strong belgian ale from the fermenter. Took a look at the volume and
it seems to be exactly 2 gal.

In spite of not having strained off any kettle trub at all on brew
day, the current trub level is pretty low. Almost low enough to
transfer via faucet on bottling day, but not quite.

## Fining (2020-01-31)

2 grams flavorless gelatine in 3 oz water. Didn't bother controlling
temperature this time. Just brought the water to a boil, took it off
heat, dissolved the gelatine, gave it a minute (tops) to cool down and
then straight into fermenter.

## Bottling (2020-02-02)

The whole shebang on bottle. I don't want to waste a keg on something
this strong. It'll take a few months to consume I'm sure.

Primed with 36 grams sugar in 1 cup of water. Had 2 gal in fermenter
and ended up with 16 bottles, so 1.5 gal in total. Probably had 1
bottle's worth left in the bottling bucket, so 1.6 gal might be more
accurate. Priming calculator says that works out to a "volume of CO2"
at 2.3. That should be pretty ok for an IPA.

Saw lots of floaty gunk on the top when I siphoned to bottling
bucket. I suspect a lot of it's krausen that was previously stuck to
the side of the fermenter but then got knocked lose when I carried it
to the kitchen counter. Could be good to put the fermenter on a stool
or something, so that I can transfer without moving it on
bottling/kegging day.

FG: 1.016 (Tilt)
FG: 1.014 (hydrometer)

There was a decent chunk of yeast stuck to the tilt, which I think can
explain the difference.

ABV: 7.9% (hydrometer)

On the topic of the OG, I'm at a bit of a loss. My own PPG calculation
puts OG at 1.077 for extract alone, and 1.084 including steeped
grains. So yeah, no clue what happened.

I tasted the hydrometer sample. Very sweet, spicy and bitter. Very
much Belgian. Promising. But definitely some fusel alchohols in there
too. Not ideal as far as replicating Raging Bitch goes, but not really
a problem considering how strong the beer is. The alcohol flavor was
actually kinda nice.
